## **Introduction** {.page_break_before}

Antimicrobial peptides (AMP) are polypeptides of fewer than 100 amino acids that contain a positive net charge (from +2 to +9), high lysine and arginine content and a significant number of hydrophobic residues (≥30%) @doi:10.1038/nri1180. These properties allow the peptides to fold into amphipathic conformations upon contact with cell membranes. The positively charged polar face helps the molecules bind to the membrane through electrostatic interaction with the negatively charged head groups of phospholipids @pmid:10333735. 

AMP have been isolated and characterized from a wide range of animal, plant and bacterial species and are known to play important roles in the host defence system and innate immunity @doi:10.1038/srep27394

The history of AMPs dates back to 1922 with the discovery of lysozyme by Alexander Flemming. The first reported animal originated AMP is defensin, which was isolated from rabbit leukocytes in 1956 @doi:10.1084/jem.103.5.589. At the same time, it was also proven that human leukocytes contain AMPs in their lysosomes.

There are two main genetic categories for mammalian AMP, which have been implicated in antimicrobial activity of phagocytes, present in inflammatory and epithelial secretions. Defensins are widely distributed in epithelial cells and phagocytes, @doi:10.1172/JCI112120. Cathelicidins are structurally and evolutionarily distinct antimicrobial peptides that are similar to defensins in abundance and distribution @pmid:7589491

The great diversity of AMP differs from one animal species to another. In this review I will focuson on defensins because, defensins are particularly prominent in humans, as evidenced by the large number of expressed human genes @pmid:7589491 , the various forms that are present in human tissues, and the ubiquitous occurrence of defensins in inflamed or infected human tissues @doi:10.1038/nri1180. 


	                                              
		                                                     
	       
	                                     
	        
    
