## Subclasses and antimicrobial activity defensins


Mammalian defensins are cationic AMP, with relatively arginine-rich nonglycosylated peptides with a molecular mass of 3.5–4.5 kDa. Their structure typically contains three intramolecular disulphide bridges between six cysteine residues @doi:10.1038/ni1206. As mentioned for AMP in general, the classification of defensins is based on their structure, which divides them into three groups: 𝛂-defensins, β-defensins, and  θ-defensins. In 𝛂-defensins, intramolecular bonding occurs between cysteines 1-6, 2-4, and @doi:10.1080/13102818.2019.1611385, whereas in β-defensins it is between 1-5, 2-4, and 3-6 @pmid:10577203. Human defensins  are produced in leukocytes and are also secreted by different epithelial cells and mucosal tissues. These human peptides have antimicrobial activity against a large number of gram-positive and -negative bacteria, fungi, and viruses @pmid:1988144. (table 1)

Although these disulfide bonds in cytheins appear to have a close relationship with microbial activity, it has been reported that the three disulfides or the order of connectivity is not an essential characteristic for activity in defensins, since even if cytokines defend them they still have antimicrobial activity @pmid:16251296. 

| 𝛂-Defensins   |            sequence         | 
|----------|:-------------:                   |
|  HNP-1	 |   A<span style="color:red">C</span>Y<span style="color:red">C</span>RIPA<span style="color:red">C</span>IAGERRYGT<span style="color:red">C</span>IYQGRLWAF<span style="color:red">CC</span> | 
|  HNP-2	 |    <span style="color:red">C</span>Y<span style="color:red">C</span>RIPA<span style="color:red">C</span>IAGERRYGT<span style="color:red">C</span>IYQGRLWAF<span style="color:red">CC</span> |  
|  HNP-3	 | D<span style="color:red">C</span>Y<span style="color:red">C</span>RIPA<span style="color:red">C</span>IAGERRYGT<span style="color:red">C</span>IYQGRLWAF<span style="color:red">CC</span>   | 
|  HNP-4	 |  V<span style="color:red">C</span>S<span style="color:red">C</span>RLVF<span style="color:red">C</span>RRTELRVGN<span style="color:red">C</span>LIGGVSFTY<span style="color:red">CC</span>TRVD | 
|  HNP-5		 |    AT<span style="color:red">C</span>Y<span style="color:red">C</span>RTGR<span style="color:red">C</span>ATRESLSGV<span style="color:red">C</span>EISGRLYRL<span style="color:red">CC</span>R   |  
|  HNP-6	 | T<span style="color:red">C</span>H<span style="color:red">C</span>R-RS<span style="color:red">C</span>YSTEYSYGT<span style="color:red">C</span>TVMGINHRF<span style="color:red">CC</span>L   | 


	                                        
|β-defensins   |           sequence         | 
|----------|:-------------:                  |
|  hBD-1	 |  GNFLTGLGHRSDHYN<span style="color:red">C</span>VSSGGQ<span style="color:red">C</span>LYSA<span style="color:red">C</span>PIFTKIQGT<span style="color:red">C</span>YRGKAK<span style="color:red">CC</span>K| 
|  hBD-2	 |    GIGDPVT<span style="color:red">C</span>LKSGAI<span style="color:red">C</span>HPVF<span style="color:red">C</span>PRRYKQIGT<span style="color:red">C</span>GLPGTK<span style="color:red">CC</span>KKP |  
|  hBD-3	 | GIINTLQKYY<span style="color:red">C</span>RVRGGR<span style="color:red">C</span>AVLS<span style="color:red">C</span>LPKEEQIGK<span style="color:red">C</span>STRGRK<span style="color:red">CC</span>RRKK   | 
|  hBD-4	 |EFELDRI<span style="color:red">C</span>GYGTAR<span style="color:red">C</span>RK-K<span style="color:red">C</span>RSQEYRIGR<span style="color:red">C</span>PN-TYA<span style="color:red">CC</span>LRKWDESLLNRTKP 

### α-defensins
The α-defensins were described, which have been isolated from the granules of polymorphonuclear neutrophil leukocytes. Because of their distribution in the granules of the leucocytes, they were named human neutrophil peptides 1-4 (HNP1-4) @pmid:11786250 They are constitutively produced by myeloid precursor cells. However, recent reports suggest that their production can be induced by activated CD8 T cells as well @pmid:12183052,  in contrast, HD-5 and HD-6 are enteric defensins stored in the granules of Paneth cells, processing of ‘pro-HD-5’ is mediated by one or more isoforms of Paneth cell trypsin 24 . Although the main sites of human α-defensins production are leukocytes and Paneth cells, the human famale reproductive tract expresses HD-5, When induced to degranulate, neutrophils and Paneth cells release these α defensins locally @pmid:22642099.

These six peptides are human α-defensins, whose typical structure consists of 29-35 amino acids. (Table1) demonstrates the difference in structure between α- and b-defensins.

α-defensins are synthesized as inactive prepro-α-defensins whose maturation requires the cleavage of a signal peptide to produce pro-α-defensins. Then, the NH2-terminal neutralizing pro fragment is cleaved by cellular proteases [@pmid:111296441; @pmid:1339298; @pmid:8601627]. Mature HNP-1, HNP-2 and HNP-3 appear to have similar bioactivities.

Mature HNP-1 3 are 3 kDa peptides comprising 6 characteristic, highly conserved cysteine residues and 3 intra-molecular disulfide bonds. HNP-2 is the smallest human defensin (29 amino-acids) and differs from HNP1 and HNP3 by the absence of only one, N-terminal amino-acid residue in HNP-1 is alanine and aspartate in HNP3 @pmid:19186224 


### β-defensins

b-defensins are phylogenetically older and new family members continue to be identified, with approximately 40 potential coding regions on the human genome @pmid:16710608 .  A computational search strategy identified 28 new human β-defensin genes in five syntenic chromosomal regions. At least 26 of the predicted genes were found to be transcribed. @pmid: 23060878. hBD-1 was the first b-defensin discovered @pmid:17060476. Although hBD-1 expression is primarily restricted to epithelium, it has been detected in peripheral blood @pmid:12492457 and was originally isolated from plasma filtrates of patients with end stage renal disease [@pmid:17060476; @pmid:22102811]

Actualy the platelets express and release hBD-1 protein in response to S. aureus-derived toxins. Platelets have also recently been shown to express and release hBD-3 protein. @pmid:22102811
 
 
 β-defensins were traditionally viewed as exclusively antimicrobial molecules, as their induction in response to diverse bacterial, viral, parasitic and fungal infections was widely reported [@pmid:15557657; @pmid:19889461]. β-defensins are preferentially attracted to the negatively charged outer membranes of bacteria, with reported efficacy against bacteria, fungi and enveloped viruses. @pmid:30761155.
 
 

